[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>LISA GARR: Hi, I'm Lisa Garr,
host of "Gaiam Inspirations."
Do you suffer from allergies?
Do you live from one allergy
medication to the next?
Well my guest today,
Dr. Susanne Bennett,
says you can get rid of
your allergies naturally.
And she describes how in
her book "The 7-Day Allergy
Makeover."
Welcome.
Thank you for being here.
>>DR. SUSANNE BENNETT:
Thank you so much, Lisa.
I'm so happy I'm here.
>>LISA: Yeah, me, too.
>>BENNETT: It's a pleasure.
>>LISA: I mean, you
make a bold statement.
Some people think that allergies
are just what you live with.
Every time there's
a seasonal change,
your entire inner ecosystem
adapts, or doesn't.
That's a big change for people
to get rid of them completely.
>>BENNETT: Absolutely.
I truly believe that
allergies actually-- you
can definitely
eliminate the symptoms.
And you can get to the core
issue, the root causes of it.
And once you address
that, you have
no problems in
healing your body.
>>LISA: Why do you
think allergies
occur in the first place?
>>BENNETT: You're asking me if
there's-- why there's so many
allergies now?
>>LISA: Yeah.
>>BENNETT: There's a lot
of different reasons.
I find in my practice
it's because a lot of us
are actually overloaded
with toxins, toxins
from our environment,
the things that we eat.
We're eating the wrong foods,
the chemicals in our foods,
the stresses we
have in our lives.
We're so overloaded with over
working, a lot of kids stuff,
emotional upsets, a lot
of different reasons.
And mainly, it's all
about your lifestyle.
And that's the reason why
I wrote "The 7-Day Allergy
Makeover," dealing with seven
different aspects of your life
that we can get rid of
and heal by removing some
of these toxins and addressing
and restoring your body.
>>LISA: So most of our
foods and things that we eat
have been around
for a long time.
It's just exacerbated in our
body because of the toxic load
that we're under as of the
last maybe 25, 50 years.
>>BENNETT: That's right.
When I was born
in the early '60s,
we never had issues
of allergies.
I didn't know anyone who ever
carried an epi pen, which
is the medical injectable device
to save your life in a sense,
to open up your airways.
I don't remember anyone having
Albuterol, the breathing
formulas, when I was growing up.
But nowadays, today, you know
a lot of individuals have it.
Allergies hit more
than 65 million people.
And that's the typical allergies
we talk about, like hay fever,
itchy eyes, runny
nose, congestion.
But I actually
address a lot more
than just the obvious symptoms.
I really address
the hidden allergies
that we deal with,
like joint pain,
headaches, acid reflux,
anxiety, insomnia.
These are symptoms that
people live with day to day,
chronically, thinking
that, oh, it's just
part of getting older.
I disagree.
I believe that we can
definitely address them,
and looking at it as an
allergy or sensitivity.
My definition of
allergy is much broader
than what most people think.
>>LISA: So also,
most people just live
daily with the
over-the-counter medications.
>>BENNETT: Yes, they do.
>>LISA: The
decongestants and the--
>>BENNETT: Headache.
>>LISA: --acid
reflux, and right.
And that's just a way of life.
>>BENNETT: Most people, because
that's how they've been-- they
thought that there was
nothing else to do.
This is the typical-- when it
comes to the medical realm,
well, if you don't feel
good, you go and get
something to stop the symptom.
But my way of the
reality of health
and how can we really feel
good for the rest of our lives
is let's get to the
root of the issue.
Let's get to, why is it that
you're getting that headache,
rather than getting something
to mask the symptom.
Because that's
what we are doing.
Although yes, it does
get rid of that headache,
but what are we really
going through day
to day that might be
triggering that headache?
It is that perfume that we're
putting all over our body?
Is it that we're
driving down the freeway
and we haven't clicked that
little button in our car that
recirculates our
air, so we're sitting
down all of the smog or the car
exhaust in front of our car,
that we are literally
breathing in every day?
Is it that we're
eating foods that
are riddled with toxins and
chemicals, that is causing harm
to our body, causing
that headache?
I want to get to the
root cause of it.
And so in my book, "The
7-Day Allergy Makeover,"
I've addressed every
part of your life
that can contribute to
all of these symptoms.
>>LISA: What you're
really talking about
here is your immune system.
>>BENNETT: It is.
>>LISA: I mean, if these
various things trigger
the immune system to constantly
be overactive, constantly
be fighting and
fighting and fighting,
is that what causes
the inflammation?
>>BENNETT: That's one of
the factors that cause it.
There's also just from
the fact that you're
overburdened by toxins.
And your body is
just loaded with it.
And our lymphatic systems
are overly congested.
Our liver is overly congested.
We are actually applying
toxins on our skin every day,
whether it's we're
showering with chlorine
and fluoride filled water--
>>LISA: Sunscreen.
>>BENNETT: The sunscreens that
are actually-- some of them
are very, very high in toxins.
I talk about that in
chapter 6, day 6, which
is all about your body and skin.
But yes, all of the things
that we're inundated with,
it's really
difficult to control.
So what I say is, why don't we
at least control what we have,
that we can do today at
our home, in our home,
in our office, in our car?
>>LISA: And what we eat.
>>BENNETT: And what we eat.
>>LISA: Yes.
>>BENNETT: Yes, what we eat.
>>LISA: What makes you
so passionate about this?
>>BENNETT: It started
many, many years ago.
I actually had a lot of
digestive issues growing up.
>>LISA: Aha.
>>BENNETT: Yes.
I'm from Korea.
And in Korea we didn't
ever have dairy.
Korean food is really
all vegetables, rice--
>>LISA: No wheat.
No bread.
>>BENNETT: No, not really.
It was no breads.
It was just lots of veggies.
I remember climbing the
mountains with my grandma
and picking all
the roots and herbs
and using that as
our meals every day.
And it was fresh, fresh food.
Dairy was definitely
out of the question.
And so when I
moved to the States
when I was 12 years old in 1975,
what a change in lifestyle.
Wow.
>>LISA: The hamburger
was introduced,
the french fry, yes.
>>BENNETT: All of that.
Donuts.
>>LISA: The standard
American diet.
>>LISA: The standard,
yes, exactly.
S-A-D. It was loaded.
And a lot of cheese.
I lived in Monterrey,
where it's all Italian.
Sicilians live there.
And so the lasagnas, the
pizzas and the cheese.
That was all there.
And that's what I
ended up eating.
But it really created
a problem with my gut.
And I had that-- those typical
irritable bowel symptoms,
the diarrhea whenever I had a
cheese pizza, things like that.
I had a lot of bloating, gas.
And at 13, I actually got
an ulcer in my stomach.
And that was all related
to the food I was eating
and the stresses in my life.
So I realized early
on, something's
going on with my gut.
And then when I went
to UCLA, I started
discovering that, you know what?
When I stop eating the dairy,
I feel a little better.
So I've been dairy-free
for a very, very long time.
>>LISA: What type of response
does the body have to dairy?
What causes the allergy?
And is it in most people?
>>LISA: It is.
Humans, by the time that
they're about five years old,
it actually stops producing--
our gut lining, small intestine
gut lining, the
brush borders stop
producing an enzyme
called lactase.
You might have heard
of that enzyme, which
is in a lot of the milks.
Remember, the Lactaid
milk and things like that?
>>LISA: Oh, yes, OK.
>>BENNETT: And what that means
is that the milk, actually they
put the enzyme in
it so you don't
have the digestive issues.
So what happens when you
are post five years old,
as we get older, we don't
have the ability to digest it.
And that's called an
intolerance, an intolerance.
And some people, even though
you may an intolerance, meaning
you don't have the
enzyme to break it down,
some people actually become
allergic to the dairy
because there're proteins
in-- not just lactose, which
is the sugar.
There's proteins, whey
proteins and casein.
>>LISA: Casein.
>>BENNETT: Exactly.
And when we've got a
disruption in our gut
because you're eating
foods that you're allergic,
when you're drinking
a lot of tap water,
and there's a lot of chemicals
in tap water such as chlorine,
which is an antiseptic, right?
>>LISA: Wow.
>>BENNETT: Think about it.
>>LISA: They're
cleaning the water.
>>BENNETT: Exactly.
Well, what is it
going to do, but it's
going to kill the
good bugs in our gut.
And that will disrupt
and cause what's
called inflammation
and leaky gut.
A leaky gut is
when the chemicals,
the foods that
you're allergic to,
will start to
create inflammation.
And your immunity is
actually reacting as well.
And then there's gaps between
the cells that open up.
And when there's gaps,
then undigested food
goes through into
our bloodstream.
And when that happens,
boom, immune reactions
and allergic reactions occur.
So you can have intolerances--
>>LISA: Because the
the immune system
is reacting to the
particles in the blood?
>>BENNETT: Yes.
>>LISA: And trying
to fight them off.
>>BENNETT: Well,
they're recognizing
it as-- not as nutrients.
It's not vitamins,
it's not minerals.
It's foods that's undigested.
So it's a bigger molecule.
Remember the gaps we
just talked about.
Those bigger molecules
in your gut lining
allow food to get in.
And that's what we
mean by leakiness.
It's a leaky gut or an
intestinal permeability.
They allow more food
than we really need to.
Not only though--
it's not just food.
You've got to think
about all the bugs
that we've got in the gut,
bacterias, yeast, fungi,
and molds and things like that,
as well as even parasites.
They can come into
our bloodstream,
causing, again, more
inflammatory reactions.
>>LISA: And you said that
the holes are caused--
those permeabilities are
caused by what again?
>>BENNETT: Well, when
we go ahead and eat
foods that are
toxic-- so we talked
about the chlorine,
the chemicals,
if we have a lot of
mercury fillings--
mercury is known--
they've done studies here.
Mercury in our fillings,
which are the silver fillings
in our mouth, will
cause a disruption
and cause inflammation
and irritation.
So it's very much
like-- remember
I told you I had an ulcer?
>>LISA: Yes.
>>BENNETT: Similar to that.
>>LISA: Same thing.
>>BENNETT: It's like
you've got inflammation,
you've got irritations
in that lining.
You're not capable of even
healing the gut, because you're
not eating the
right foods, either.
If you're eating foods that
are like the standard American
diet, you're not getting the
right nutrients and vitamins,
antioxidants, greens,
fish oils and things
like that, that
help heal the gut.
If you're not having that,
that's another reason.
But you know, there's also--
we take a lot of antibiotics.
We take a lot of antibiotics.
>>LISA: Does that
cause it as well?
>>BENNETT: Yes, it does.
>>LISA: I see.
>>BENNETT: Including
the non-steroidal
anti-inflammatories,
like the ibuprofens,
the over-the-counter drugs
for joint pain and headaches.
We have a tendency
to have that, too.
And if you have even just
two, three, sometimes
four dosages of it, it'll start
the inflammatory reaction,
and you'll start
to get leakiness.
You've probably heard if you
take too much aspirin, if you
take too much of the
ibuprofen, you get--
>>LISA: It can eat through the
stomach walls type of thing.
OK.
>>BENNETT: That's exactly
what I'm talking about.
It can cause bleeding,
and, again, that leakiness.
>>LISA: I want
you to take a look
at the video here of
Dr. Suzanne's story.
Take a look.
[VIDEO PLAYBACK]
-Hello everybody.
It's Doctor Suzanne Bennett,
natural allergy expert
and the author of "The
7-Day Allergy Makeover,"
a simple program to eliminate
allergies and restore
vibrant health from
the inside out.
I wrote this book specifically
for anyone suffering
from obvious allergy symptoms,
things like runny nose,
watery, itchy eyes, sneezing,
rashes, and even hives.
But it's also for
those of you who
have allergy symptoms
that are not so obvious,
things like fatigue,
insomnia, joint pain, bloating
and digestive issues.
Or maybe you've got
anxiety, lack of motivation,
or have trouble concentrating.
My definition of
allergy is much broader.
And I believe that if
you're not operating
at your optimal level
of health, and you're
dealing with chronic
symptoms every day,
then you have hidden
allergy symptoms.
I wrote "The 7-Day Allergy
Makeover," number one,
to give you an
easy-to-implement, step-by-step
action plan to discover the
root causes of your health
issues, number two, to help
you eliminate the toxins
and irritants that trigger
your allergy symptoms,
and then of course number
three, to restore vibrant health
from the inside out.
I can help you get to the
bottom of what's going on,
and more importantly, turn it
around, so you and your family
can feel symptom-free,
full of energy,
and get back to
enjoying life again.
Now maybe you've
got a child who's
suffering from allergies
as my son Cody suffered.
And you're at your
wit's end, desperately
looking for an answer.
Or maybe you or
your loved one have
issues that aren't
so severe, but you'd
like to find out
how to live without
these annoying,
irritating symptoms,
such as constant runny nose
and acid reflux, headaches,
or unexplained fatigue.
I know my plan
works, because I've
helped thousands of patients
heal their allergies
and regain their energy
and zest for life.
I've helped everyone
from kids to parents
to celebrities to CEOs.
Simply put, I've condensed 24
years of clinical experience
and put it into this
book to save you
time, heartache, in your
own search for answers.
Now, if you don't know my
story, well, 19 years ago,
I gave birth to my son Cody.
And what should have been
the happiest time of my life
quickly became a nightmare.
At three months old, my baby
became plagued with allergies.
And I don't mean a simple
sneezing fit or rash
here and there that
subsided in a day.
No, he developed
severe-- a whole range
of severe allergic
reactions, including
hives and intense
rashes, mucousy stool,
constant runny nose,
and terrible wheezing.
And things only got
worse over time,
that we had to carry
a medical injection
to open up his airway during
emergencies and save his life.
We were so disappointed,
disappointed in the doctors,
and I was so
disappointed in myself.
Because whatever we tried, we
just couldn't help our son.
I was so, so scared for Cody's
life and for his future.
But I wasn't going to accept it.
So I became 100%
committed so that we
could find the root
cause of his illness.
I read endless scientific
studies and books
and took post graduate
programs in allergies
and environmental medicine and
contacted doctor after doctor
in my search for the answers.
Finally, little
by little, I began
to put the puzzle
pieces together.
And I learned about how the
food and water that we consume
can trigger allergies and the
steps on how to heal them.
I learned about how to
keep an allergy-free home
and how to clean the
air that we breathe.
I put everything I
learned into practice.
And by the time Cody was four
years old, he was allergy free,
and our nightmare
was finally over.
What began as a mother's
desperate fight to save her son
evolved into this
comprehensive program and book,
"The 7-Day Allergy Makeover."
[END VIDEO PLAYBACK]
>>LISA: OK, so what is the
7-Day Allergy Makeover?
What does it consist of?
>>BENNETT: 7-Day
Allergy Makeover
was after taking care of my son.
I didn't even go into that
part, and that was really
the reason why I wrote the book.
>>BENNETT: That was
in the video, yes.
>>BENNETT: Yes, and
my son was so ill.
And I really had to figure
out a way to help them.
As a mother, I was desperate,
desperate to help him.
>>LISA: You don't want to see
your child in that much pain.
>>BENNETT: No, not at
all, absolutely not.
It was scary.
It was scary, because
we didn't know
if he was going to survive
this kind of allergy,
these anaphylactic reactions,
being in the hospital.
It was really, really difficult.
But what ended up happening was
with all the different studies
that I went into,
and finding out
that there are a lot of natural
remedies, natural strategies,
that we can do it at home,
for ourselves, with our food.
And then I developed the
7_day Allergy Makeover.
So each day, seven days, we
deal with different aspects
of our lifestyle.
Number one, day one, is
all about your nutrition,
what we're going to be eating.
And I teach all
the different foods
that I ask people to eliminate
and what to add into your diet.
>>LISA: So, the elimination-- no
dairy, as you said, no gluten--
>>BENNETT: That's right.
>>LISA: --no sugar.
>>BENNETT: No sugar, yes.
>>LISA: What do you add in?
>>BENNETT: Well, let's go ahead
a little bit further then.
It's not just that-- no alcohol.
And that's a very difficult
thing that a lot of people
cannot get rid of.
The alcohol is one
of the factors that
also causes that leaky gut
syndrome that we talked about.
>>LISA: Why?
>>BENNETT: Why?
Because it is a microtoxin.
The fermentation of
sugar and yeast and mold
all together, it
creates a microtoxin,
and that's actually a
byproduct of the fermentation.
That's alcohol.
>>LISA: That's wine,
beer, all alcohol.
>>BENNETT: Yes, yes.
>>LISA: Wow, let
me write this down.
[BOTH LAUGH]
>>BENNETT: Yes, and
so is also fungal.
Fungal-contaminated
foods-- that's
a very difficult thing
to understand, too.
Because we don't realize that
the fresh fruits and vegetables
that we have, if we don't
wash them carefully,
and if we end up eating
a lot of salads--
we love salads in
America, and we eat it
at all the restaurants.
But I want you to know, these
restaurants do not clean it.
They don't wash it.
They take it out
of that bag that
says it's three times
washed, but often it's
still contaminated with
bacterias and fungi.
The fungi can also make a major
disruption in the gut as well.
So that causes more allergies.
You probably heard
about mold allergies.
Oh, I've got mold allergies
from the home and inhalant.
It's not just smelling it.
It's eating it that
can be a problem.
>>LISA: Interesting.
And that's, of course--
cheese is mold, right?
>>BENNETT: Oc courses.
Most of us like cut
all the outside, right?
And then you'll just
eat the middle of it.
But definitely there's
a lot of fungus there.
And how about a basket of, let's
say, strawberries or berries.
It's difficult to find one
where you don't see mold in it.
And we have a tendency
to be like, OK.
>>LISA: But the body doesn't
adapt to any of that?
I mean, it's been around
for hundreds and thousands
of years.
>>BENNETT: Good
point, good point.
But if you think about the
toxins, again, that we ingest
and the water that we drink and
all the chemicals and the drugs
that we take, and we disrupt
the gut lining, then the acid
that we're supposed to
have in our upper stomach--
we're supposed to have
the high level of acid
when we're eating these
foods which will kill it.
We don't have it.
We end up disrupting those
cells that produce this acid,
and we have what is
called hypochlorhydia.
It's a condition that
many people end up
having because we end up
causing harm to our gut lining.
>>LISA: And we don't
even know that.
So this is all contributing
to inflammation,
is basically what you're saying.
>>BENNETT: Yeah.
>>LISA: OK, day two.
We haven't even
gotten to day two.
>>BENNETT: I know.
I know.
Day two is all about your water.
I discuss a lot about
water, the water
that we drink, the water
that we actually wash our--
and bathe with.
We have a lot of chemicals,
especially tap water.
When I grew up in Korea,
we had to boil our water
to make sure that all
the bugs were gone.
But in America, we
don't do that at all,
because we believe
that it's clean.
It is not clean.
And you've got to really look
at what is in your water.
There is, in every city,
there's actually a water report.
Did you know that?
>>LISA: Oh, yes.
I've seen the water reports
with the cryptosporidium.
>>BENNETT: Arsenic.
>>LISA: Arsenic in it, yeah.
>>BENNETT: Uranium.
I mean, it's really amazing.
>>LISA: What do you drink?
>>BENNETT: I drink
purified water.
>>LISA: Purified.
It is reverse osmosis?
>>LISA: It is.
It is reverse osmosis.
>>LISA: Is it alkaline?
>>BENNETT: Well, I believe
that alkaline water is great.
And the reason why I just drink
pure water, reverse osmosis
water, is this-- I
believe to increase
your alkalinity in your body
is by eating more vegetables.
Vegetables have a
lot of minerals,
and minerals is what keeps
our body more alkaline.
So to me, pH difference
is not the same
as having high
alkalinity in your body.
>>LISA: Now what about
the reverse osmosis,
where it takes the minerals out?
How do you-- oh, you put them
back in with the vegetables.
>>BENNETT: Well, if you eat
plenty of vegetables, nuts,
and seeds, the healthy
nuts and seeds,
the one that's not
loaded with fungus,
like peanuts and cashews--
>>LISA: The dry roasted.
>>BENNETT: Yes, exactly.
If you eat these foods
that are whole foods,
you're going to get
all the minerals
that you need to keep
yourself more alkaline.
Now, everyone-- a lot of my
patients come and say, well,
RO water or distilled
water is dead water.
I don't know if you've
ever heard that.
>>LISA: Oh, yeah.
>>BENNETT: Yeah, because there's
no frequency or vibration
because there's no minerals.
And I understand that
it is lacking minerals.
But you've got to realize
that the majority of the world
actually drink distilled
water in a sense,
because that's rainwater.
Rainwater is distillation,
natural distillation,
and it is vaporization
of water into the clouds.
And then boom, we get rain.
That is actually pure water.
>>BENNETT: I would rather choose
the minerals that I put back
into the water rather than
get them from the source.
Because you don't know if
they're micro available,
if they have any types
of bacteria in them.
I'd rather choose the
source, which vegetables
is a great way of doing that.
I hadn't thought of that.
>>BENNETT: You've got
to also remember that
when it's not reverse
osmosis, and let's say
it's carbon filtered.
>>LISA: Right.
>>BENNETT: We've got carbon
filters in our refrigerator.
We've got carbon filters--
it's just a charcoal carbon
filter-- coming from
let's say our tap water.
You can get that.
And then there's certain
bottling companies
that are fresh, spring waters
that are carbon filters.
But if those spring
waters come from water
such as up in Arrowhead or
in the Colorado mountains,
where there's a lot of
granite, natural granite,
you're going to get arsenic
and uranium in minute amounts.
>>LISA: Oh, really?
Still, because it's in granite?
>>BENNETT: Yes, granite,
just natural granite.
In California, we get our water
from the California aqueduct.
It comes from Colorado mainly.
>>LISA: Right.
>>BENNETT: We have a lot
of arsenic and uranium.
You will see that.
>>LISA: Right, I saw
that in the report.
>>BENNETT: Yes, exactly.
>>LISA: But it's not added.
It's naturally occurring.
>>BENNETT: Oh, it's
naturally because
of the granite in basic earth.
>>LISA: So then could
it be harmful, though?
>>BENNETT: Sure.
If you have a lot of water,
you have an accumulation
of arsenic and uranium.
Think about uranium.
It is definitely can be
nuclear waste, right?
Like in Fukushima--
>>LISA: It's a heavy metal.
>>BENNETT: Yes, it is.
It is a nuclear byproduct,
a waste product.
Well, if you have that little
by little in your body,
and you might have an issue
with your liver or your kidneys,
and you're not able
to filter it out--
because our cells can do that.
But you don't have the
ability, whether it's
a genomic issue,
immune system issue,
you've got kidney
disease, you've
got fatty liver, whatever
it is, and you're not
able to eliminate it, then those
toxins are going to accumulate.
And that toxic burden, and the
overload of the body burden
is what also is one of the
causes of allergies, too.
So you've got all these
things happening all at once.
>>LISA: And you're
talking about not only
environmental allergies
or weather allergies,
you're talking about
food allergies,
all sorts of allergic
reactions that
cause inflammation in the body.
OK.
>>BENNETT: Right.
>>LISA: All right,
so I mean, the water
topic we could talk
about for hours.
>>BENNETT: That's right.
>>LISA: Just because
our whole body is, what?
70% water?
>>BENNETT: 70% water.
>>LISA: Our eyes are 90% water.
>>BENNETT: Yes, yes.
Our blood, too.
It's very, very high.
And I believe that water is
one of the ways-- actually,
did you know that
if you drank water,
and a good amount of water,
you can reduce your allergies
if you're having
an allergy attack?
>>LISA: Really?
>>BENNETT: Yeah.
>>LISA: And is it
half your body weight?
>>BENNETT: It's
actually in ounces, yes.
So let's say you're 150 pounds.
If you're 150 pounds,
you drink half
of your body weight, which
is 75 ounces in water.
Now, if you're in a hot
day, like right now, it's
so hot here in
Southern California,
you've got to drink more.
And if you're an athlete,
then you definitely
want to drink at least
20 to 24 ounces more.
>>LISA: If you sweat.
Great.
>>BENNETT: Yes.
OK, day three and
four basically is
combined with
indoor living area.
>>BENNETT: Yes, yes.
Day three is all about
your quality of air
and how to clean it
and what you want
to do inside your environment.
90% of our lives are
actually spent indoors.
>>LISA: 90%?
Wow.
>>BENNETT: Americans spend--
that's the studies showing.
That's a lot hours.
>>LISA: That's a lot
of time, yeah, inside.
>>BENNETT: That's a lot
of hours being indoors.
So we've got to make sure the
air that we breathe indoors
is clean.
And you've got to
remember that we also
live with a lot of furniture,
beautiful furniture.
But there's a lot
of chemicals that
can out-gas from textiles of
different types of furniture
if you've got flooring or
carpeting and all that.
So you want to
get a HEPA filter.
And there's two
types of filtrations
that you want to put.
Make sure that your
air purifier has
HEPA, which is to
take out all the dust,
molds, particulates, but
the carbon filtration
to absorb the chemicals
that I'm talking
about that comes
from furniture, which
is called volatile
organic compounds, VOCs.
>>LISA: OK.
OK.
All right, so day four
is combined with this?
>>BENNETT: Yeah, well day
four is about the living.
So day three is
all about the air.
And then what is going on
in the living environment?
So we talked a little
bit about the furniture,
but your bedroom--
>>LISA: Carpet.
>>BENNETT: Yes,
but in the bedroom,
we got to make sure that
we have dust mite covers.
How old is your pillow?
How old is your mattress?
Do you sleep with your
little pet in the bedroom?
And those types of things.
And for children, I have a whole
section for children's room.
If you have a lot
stuffed animals
on the children's bed, that
can promote more allergies,
inhalant allergies
and things like that.
>>LISA: Interesting.
OK, so day five.
>>BENNETT: Day five is
all about your kitchen.
And the kitchen is probably
where a lot of people
forget that you can have a
lot of toxins and allergens.
They think, oh, I
clean it all the time.
But what are you
cleaning it with?
Could it be it's a lot of
detergent and chemicals?
The chemicals with
chlorine bleach and things
like that, ammonia products,
that's a lot of toxins.
And again, that can create
a problem with your gut.
So I recommend people to use a
half white vinegar, distilled
white vinegar, with
water combination.
And you can clean your
counters that way.
You can clean your
refrigerators.
>>LISA: Does it get
rid of bacteria?
>>BENNETT: Yes, they do.
It does.
You can even do it in your
showers and things like that.
But I recommend you
clean it properly.
And then, what are we
cooking our food with?
In my book, I talked
about my son's story,
where his first problem was an
eczema patch under his chin.
And I discovered
that it actually
had to do with the
heavy metals, nickel,
in the stainless
steel pots and pans.
I shaved his head off
and got rid of-- I
took all his hair,
sent it away, looked
at all the metals in
his hair analysis.
At six months old we did this.
And sure enough, there
was a lot of nickel.
So I'm going, where is
this child getting nickel?
>>LISA: Right, right.
>>BENNETT: You know,
he's only six months old.
But that's when I
started feeding him
food with a stainless
steel spoon.
Stainless steel is an alloy,
and there's nickel in it.
>>LISA: Wow.
>>BENNETT: Stainless steel
pots and pans, you know.
So we were using
all kinds of that.
So as soon as I changed
my pots and pans
to glass and enamel
cookware, which does not
have nickel in it, and
started using bamboo spoons
to feed little Cody--
>>LISA: They don't
have bacteria in them?
No.
>>BENNETT: It's not
about the bacteria.
It's the nickel that was
causing the allergic reaction.
I spoke earlier about how
mercury can disrupt the gut.
So can nickel.
>>LISA: So can nickel.
>>BENNETT: Yeah, you know
how when you wear jewelry?
For me, I had a really
bad nickel allergy,
and if I wore custom
jewelry, I'd always get itchy
>>LISA: Yes, or turn green.
>>BENNETT: Turn green, exactly.
And basically my son had the
similar allergic reaction
to nickel.
And in his case, it created
this eczema patch on his skin.
>>LISA: Is eczema related to
inflammation and allergies?
>>BENNETT: Yes, it is.
>>LISA: Skin psoriasis
and so forth.
>>BENNETT: Exactly.
I believe that a lot of these
hives, red bumps all over,
eczema, itching--
>>LISA: Bumps behind the arm.
>>BENNETT: Yes,
bumps behind the arm.
Some people just swell up.
All of a sudden they have
an eye that-- all of that
is allergic reactions.
Your body is telling
you something
is wrong because of
these skin issues.
So you've got to dig deep.
And I ask everyone to be an
allergy detective on their own.
If you go and read
the book, you're
going to get all the strategies
to become your own allergy
detective.
>>LISA: Amazing.
All right, so now
that was day six.
And then day seven?
>>BENNETT: Day
six is all about--
>>LISA: Oh, day six.
>>BENNETT: --cleaning
up your body.
Your body.
We have a tendency to
take really short showers.
Like quick showers
because we've got
to go and get to work or
take care of our children,
and all that.
But did you know, in this
tiny little patch of skin,
we've got almost a million
bacterias and bugs growing.
We've got natural bugs
that are part of our skin
that we need to constantly
wash away and clean
and scrub away so that
our immunity-- we do
have a really big immune
system on our skin as well.
So we've got to take care
of our body on the outside
as well as on the inside.
I also talk a lot
about exercising.
And if you exercise, the
appropriate types of exercise,
it will calm your
allergy symptoms down,
number one by sweating.
If you sweat, you get
rid of your toxins.
>>LISA: What types of
exercise do you recommend?
>>BENNETT: I
actually call what I
teach my patients
is Burst to Boost.
Burst to boost your
energy, but also burst
to boost your sweating and
getting rid of your toxins.
So Burst training is short
term, repetitive short term
and high-high impact.
And it doesn't have to
be impact, but a lot
where you feel the increase
in your heart rate.
So if you increase your
heart rate really quickly
and you do it short
period of time,
so let's say 50 seconds to a
minute, run, run, run, run.
run.
Or climb the stairs
or dance or jump rope.
I'm a jump roper.
>>LISA: Uh-huh.
>>BENNETT: Or jump rope, and you
do it for about a minute long,
then you walk and relax
for another minute.
Then you do it again, and
you're doing these cycles
of intervals of
exercise and rest.
And I only do 15
minutes to 20 maximum.
>>LISA: So day seven is--
>>BENNETT: Day
seven is all about
dealing with our
stress in our lives.
Stress affects every
part of our body,
our emotional, mental,
psychological stresses and even
physical stresses.
Some people exercise too much.
We talked a little
bit about exercising.
And if you do too
much exercise, you're
going to cause inflammation.
You're not able to handle
the rest of your body dealing
with allergies.
But regarding the
stresses, I want
people to know that
there's so many things you
can do naturally at home.
And I teach that.
I give you strategies
on how to help
you deal with your
day-to-day stress.
>>LISA: Do tell, please, a few.
>>BENNETT: Well, the one thing
that I find that people do not
do enough is scheduling
their day out.
If you can deliberately
schedule your day
and know what you're supposed
to be doing at certain times--
even your meals,
put them in there.
And if you schedule
your day, you
don't have to think
about it anymore,
and it actually helps
you maintain your day.
And then of course
you're not stressed
about getting there on
time and this and that.
>>LISA: How many times a
day do you suggest eating?
>>BENNETT: Oh, I truly
believe that we all
need meals, three meals a
day, and one to two snacks,
depending on the type
of person you are.
If you're an athlete,
you need more food.
If you're a child, you
also need two snacks.
But an average adult, I
say three meals a day.
And definitely you've got
to have breakfast, and not
with all the sugars
and all that.
You really want to eat whole
foods, lots of vegetables.
And I've got a list.
In the book I give
you all this list.
And if you end up having a
lot of irritable bowel issues,
you're also going to have to
deal with another special kind
of list that I call my Gut
Restore Food Checklist.
Because that will help
you get rid of your gas
and bloating and all that.
>>LISA: What about eggs?
Are those considered
dairy for you or no?
>>BENNETT: Well, eggs
actually comes from a chicken,
so dairy is all about the
milk of the animal, right?
The cow's milk, sheep's milk,
goat's milk, buffalo milk.
Eggs actually is one of
the higher allergenic foods
as well.
So I talk about the
seven foods that you've
got to refrain from.
Eggs is one of them.
And so is peanuts.
But what you can
have are chicken.
I love of grass fed, grass
finished beef, buffalo meat.
You know, buffalo
meat in America,
you're not allowed to cage them.
They're never
supposed to be caged.
They're supposed
to be free range.
So buffalo, bison
meat is actually
the healthier meat,
as well as lamb.
I truly believe that
humans do need meats.
If you don't want to and you're
vegetarian, totally fine,
but you're going to have to
really up your amino acids,
supplement amino
acids, so that you
get enough to help you make
your proteins in your body.
>>LISA: That was going
to be my next question
was amino acids--
I mean supplements.
Do you recommend supplements?
>>BENNETT: I actually
love supplements.
The reason why I
love supplements
is because our soils are
not loaded with nutrients
that we want.
>>LISA: Right.
>>BENNETT: And the
vitamins-- there
are essential nutrients, which
are called orthomolecular.
And if you want your cells to
be living as long as you can--
and what I mean by that,
without causing aging, right?
And I'm all about aging now.
I'm 52 years old.
I really need to maintain
my health and my vitamins
and the antioxidants I take.
Antioxidants and green
juices that I have,
they all are to help me maintain
my maximum cellular lifespan.
And to do that, you need
to eat healthier foods.
And then all the fats that
you're eating, fish oils, these
are all important to
maintain, reduce inflammation
for the brain, for the
allergies we were talking about.
So yes, I truly believe
that supplements do help.
>>LISA: What would you
say is your typical diet
look like during the day?
Start with breakfast.
What do you eat?
>>BENNETT: Oh, breakfast--
I love vegetables with eggs.
So let's say I put
spinach, tomatoes,
and a little bit of avocado
into-- I use arugula, too.
People don't realize that you
can actually cook arugula.
>>LISA: It's a strong lettuce.
It's a great taste.
>>BENNETT: Oh, it's so good.
>>LISA: Adds a lot
of texture to it.
>>BENNETT: Absolutely.
I actually, when
I go out to eat,
I don't eat lettuce because
of the contamination
of fungus and bacteria.
I ask them to cook my lettuce.
I ask them to cook my
arugula, cook my radicchio.
And it's a wonderful side
dish just like spinach.
>>LISA: Oh, interesting.
>>BENNETT: But for breakfast,
I love eating that.
And I love having let's
say chicken slices
or a tiny little bit of beef.
And it could only be a
vegetable with a little bit
of gluten-free oatmeal.
So I like having carbohydrates,
proteins, and vegetables
all together.
And that is because I have
a very high stressed day.
I have a lot of work throughout
the day with patients.
And for me to maintain my
health and my adrenal strength,
I need some carbohydrates.
And I find that
most of my patients
do well when they have a
little bit of carbohydrates
with each meal.
So 50% of your plate will
be veggies, a quarter of it
is protein, a quarter of it
is the carbohydrates-- low
glycemic of course, gluten free.
And then you drizzle
a little bit of oil,
have a little bit
of ghee if you want.
Ghee is like the
only thing that I
think that the
dairy you can have.
which is clarified butter.
>>LISA: Why is that?
>>BENNETT: It's completely
free of lactose,
which we can be intolerant
to, and the proteins
casein and whey.
>>LISA: Oh, it is?
>>BENNETT: Yes, it is.
Completely devoid of it.
>>LISA: It's very rich tasting.
>>BENNETT: Oh, it sure is.
It's yummy, very, very
soft and liquidy, right?
But it also has butyrate in it,
which is great for your gut.
So there's different
things that you want.
>>LISA: Oh.
>>BENNETT: I always
take my enzymes.
As we get older, we cannot
produce, we have a tough--
tougher time producing, enzymes
in our gut and small intestine
and our pancreas, as
well as our stomach.
So I always-- I
do take an enzyme
with my meal in the beginning.
And then I take some of the
vitamins and minerals and oils
that are healthy for you,
antioxidants in my green drink.
And then as I go into my
lunch, I may have soup.
I really love soup, because I
love warm foods more than cold.
>>LISA: Even on a hot day?
>>BENNETT: Even on
a hot day, you'll
see me drinking a hot--
even warm-- water,
as well as having a soup
with vegetables in it, lots
of veggies.
>>LISA: Do you make a
lot of your own soups?
>>BENNETT: I do.
I love bone broth soup,
like chicken bone broth.
>>LISA: For what reason?
>>BENNETT: Because
there's a lot of collagen.
When you break the
bones and open,
there's a lot of
collagen that comes out,
as well as the
nutrients that are
inside the bone, which
is the bone marrow.
>>LISA: Interesting.
>>BENNETT: Yeah.
And that helps with the
healing of your gut.
There is a lot of the
collagen and the proteins
that you want that
will be helpful
for-- and of course
calcium and the nutrients,
and magnesium, as
well the silica.
All of that is really healthy
for building your gut.
So I have a lot of
bone broth soups.
>>LISA: OK.
So do you think that
children eventually
will grow out of
these allergies?
Did your child grow out of it?
>>BENNETT: No, of course not.
What ended up happening is after
I implemented all the things
that I learned from
school-- I literally
had to go to post graduate
in environmental medicine
and allergies and
all the natural ways.
By the time he was three
and a half, four years old,
he was completely
free-- completely free--
of allergies, including
anaphylactic reactions.
>>LISA: Wow.
>>BENNETT: So because
of that, I found out
that-- you know what, how about
all of these other children?
Do they outgrow it?
And I say no.
What actually ends up
happening, it goes down deeper.
So you get these children that
are really overtly allergic,
having a lot of allergic
reactions and hives
and itchiness and anaphylactic
reactions or asthma.
>>LISA: And ADD, ADHD,
all of those things.
>>BENNETT: Those are
sensitivities, often
to chemicals and toxins in the
foods that we eat and casein
and all that.
But what ends up
happening, it goes deeper.
And they end up
having gut issues.
They end up having,
instead of the asthma,
they start having, wow, I now
have irritable bowel symptoms.
I start having colitis.
I have bloating, excess
gas, acid reflux.
All of these things
start to happen.
So I find that it's not
that you outgrow it,
it just goes deeper and starts
causing other deeper conditions
and chronic illness, like
arthritis, like diabetes.
As you go along,
it can definitely
be part of the whole
inflammatory problem.
>>LISA: OK, so tell me
about your clinic.
Who comes into your clinic?
What types of
problems do they have?
>>BENNETT: My clinic in
Santa Monica, California,
is called Wellness
for Life Center.
And I've been treating all forms
of different chronic illnesses,
in particular allergies,
because that is my expertise.
But I also work with
individuals who've
got dietary issues,
who are having
chronic symptoms such as
joint pain, headaches.
A lot of these conditions that
they've gone to other doctors
and have not been
able to figure it out.
>>LISA: Even migraines?
>>BENNETT: Oh, even
migraines, absolutely.
>>LISA: Can be
fixed through diet.
>>BENNETT: Yes, through
diet, through figuring out
what's going on in
their environment.
Often migraines can
be because something
is going on in the office even.
There's chemicals in
the office, and the way
they are dealing with
the cars, whatever.
You know those perfume
little trees that you have?
>>LISA: Oh, those give
me a headache, yeah.
>>BENNETT: There we go.
>>LISA: Yeah.
>>BENNETT: That's what
I'm talking about,
those type of things.
I can figure out by going
through their history,
looking at their blood labs,
and possibly even needing
to go into their stool
analysis, urine analysis.
We do all of it to figure
out what is going on,
getting to the root
cause of your issues.
And then one by one,
we get rid of it.
And then, of course, you end
up having much better outcome,
and you feel a lot better.
The whole idea is I
want you feel better.
Let's get you so that
you have more energy.
You sleep better.
>>LISA: And a greater
quality of life.
>>BENNETT: A lot better.
>>LISA: Yes.
>>BENNETT: The vitals,
the vitals-- to me,
I call the vital signs.
Because we need to sleep better.
We need to eat well.
We need to have better
bowel movements.
>>LISA: Yes.
>>BENNETT: A lot of people
run around not having
good bowel movements.
>>LISA: Right.
>>BENNETT: We want
to sleep better.
All of these day-to-day things
that are just basic to life.
We've got to do better.
And you can do that by being
your own allergy detective.
And I will help you.
That's what we do
a the-- excuse me,
that's what we do at the
Wellness for Life Center.
>>LISA: At the clinic.
And then also the book
will help other people
>>BENNETT: Yes.
>>LISA: So is it ever too
late to start something
like this, if you're
a senior citizen,
or if you're well
into an illness?
>>BENNETT: Not even.
I see children from
newborn-- in fact,
I've been to the hospitals
on the day they're born,
and then I looked at them.
And definitely up into
the 70s, 80s, 90s.
We can do it any time, any time.
A lot of my students-- because
I have programs online.
A lot of my students
are actually
in the 60s, 70s, and even 80s.
And as they get older, they
can change a few things,
and they can feel better.
And why not?
Why not start anytime?
You've just got to be motivated.
You've got to want to feel good.
And when you have
both of that, then you
can definitely be able
to change your life.
>>LISA: Yes.
I've been working with this
anti-inflammation diet, which
is basically what it is
that you're doing here.
And I pulled a muscle
the other day in my back,
and I healed it through food.
I actually ate my
way clean enough
that it was gone in a half a
day-- and ice and so forth.
But I managed to do that.
I was just trying
it as an experiment
to see if I ate the clean, clean
foods, vegetables and protein
only, no grains, no wheat, no
dairy, no sugar, no coffee.
It actually healed my body.
I just tried it.
>>BENNETT: That makes sense.
>>LISA: It's a great experiment.
>>BENNETT: It is.
Why not live that way--
>>LISA: All the time.
>>BENNETT: If you can, yes.
>>LISA: Because in a way I
viewed it as restrictive.
>>BENNETT: Yeah.
>>LISA: Yeah, because I was
so used to the old habits
and patterns.
But if I could feel like I
feel every single day when
I did that and healed
the back muscle,
and to wake up
clear-headed, and to not
have foggy thinking, and
to really just be active
and not need coffee
at 4 o'clock.
>>BENNETT: Could you imagine
how efficient you'll be?
>>LISA: Yes.
>>BENNETT: How efficient
that pure mental focus
and the actions
that you go into.
I call it my seventh sense, is
that when I'm feeling the best,
I'm in my seventh sense.
And that's when you
really can focus,
that mental focus, and that
intuitive feeling that you get,
that aha moment, which
I call the sixth sense,
and a lot of people,
we know about that.
>>LISA: So what's the seventh?
>>BENNETT: Seventh to me--
if you look at it online,
they call it the
divine love energy.
But for me, it's
actually, I call it--
I've talked about this
for many, many years.
Because as an athlete,
there's a feeling
that we get when you just
know you're in the zone.
>>LISA: Yes, yes.
>>BENNETT: You have
that aha moment.
You just know how
good it feels inside.
And when you've got that mental
pure focus, and your body's
right on that edge, in
combination with action,
that's the seventh sense.
>>LISA: You're in the flow.
>>BENNETT: You're
in the-- very good.
You know the flow.
>>LISA: Yes, yes.
>>BENNETT: It's exactly that.
And I love to live
in that manner.
If I live in that manner, then
I'm the happiest I can be.
I can be of service to everyone.
I can be present with my family.
I can be present with you.
I experience enthusiasm and
life in such a different way.
And I find that this really
helps my patients, too,
because how can I be
good to my patients--
>>LISA: Right, if
you're not practicing--
yes-- this yourself.
>>BENNETT: I just can't.
>>LISA: You are
such an inspiration.
And I appreciate the fact
that you love living full out
and that you like a
switched-on state of mind.
And yes, I mean, I've
gone to doctors before,
and they look sicker than I
do when I walk in the door.
And yeah--
>>BENNETT: It's sad, isn't it?
>>LISA: I want to see
the example of what
I want to be sitting on
the other side of that desk
and then empower myself
to do this on my own.
This is a lifestyle change.
>>BENNETT: That is true.
>>LISA: Absolutely.
Beautiful.
>>BENNETT: Thank you.
It could be "The 7-Day
Lifestyle Makeover."
>>LISA: That's a great point.
Take the word "allergy"
out, you could
put anything else in there.
>>BENNETT: That's right.
Absolutely.
>>LISA: Inflammation, yes.
>>BENNETT: Yeah, you can
transform your life immediately
just from changing
little things one by one.
>>LISA: Absolutely.
>>BENNETT: Thank you.
>>LISA: Thank you so much.
And if you would like to
watch a replay of my interview
with Dr. Susanne Bennett,
or you could share it
with your friends,
go to GaiamTV.com.
Until next time, I invite
you to stay inspired.
[MUSIC PLAYING]